1. This is alist of countries and dependencies by population. It includessovereign states, inhabiteddependent territoriesand, in some cases, constituent countries of sovereign states, with inclusion within the list being primarily based on theISOstandardISO 3166-1. For instance, theUnited Kingdomis considered a single entity, while the constituent countries of theKingdom of the Netherlandsare considered separately. In addition, this list includes certainstates with limited recognitionnot found in ISO 3166-1. Also given in a percentage is each country's population compared with theworld population, which theUnited Nationsestimates at 8.119 billion as of 2024.[1]
2. Figures used in this chart are based on the most up-to-date estimates orprojectionsby the nationalcensusauthority, where available, and are usually rounded off.
3. Where updated national data are not available, figures are based on the estimates or projections for 2024 by the Population Division of theUnited Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs.
4. Because the compiled figures are not collected at the same time in every country, or at the same level of accuracy, the resulting numerical comparisons may create misleading conclusions. Furthermore, the addition of figures from all countries may not equal the world total.
5. Areas that form integral parts ofsovereign states, such as thecountries of the United Kingdom, are counted as part of the sovereign states concerned. Not included are other entities that are not sovereign states, such as theEuropean Union,[a]and independent territories that do not have permanent populations, such as theChagos Archipelagoandvarious countries' claimstoAntarctica.[2]
6. Note: A numbered rank is assigned to the 193member states of the United Nations, plus the twoobserver states to the United Nations General Assembly. Dependent territories and constituent countries that are parts of sovereign states are not assigned a numbered rank. In addition, sovereign states with limited recognition are included, but not assigned a number rank.
